[Music]
my gun is ready to mate again
she spent all morning calling for a job
[Music]
but so far there's no reply when he
doesn't appear for three days we all
join the search picking up his trail
following his footprints
we're all worried
and then we find him dead
[Music]
not killed by poachers but poisoned by a
villager protecting his cattle but by
golly doesn't know her mate is dead
she's still searching for him
[Music]
she can smell him but he's gone
before the journey can begin Giles wants
to show Carrie the worst reality of
Tiger persecution they've come to the
headquarters of the National Park as
well as dozens of confiscated snares
there are several tiger skins the
poachers victims seeing the skins of
young Tigers is particularly difficult
for Carrie
[Music]
I'm not even as I was spotting strike I
probably just started to explore his own
surroundings hard to comprehend rain no
matter how many times you see it never
gets easy on the international market a
single wild tiger can fetch over 30,000
pounds the trade is a complex problem
the poachers are evil they're the ones
doing it but these guys are only doing
it because it's a way of living and it's
the people behind them that are fueling
it and then the people who are buying it
that's creating the demand
[Music]
okay trying underneath the snow right
here out here sticks are the only way to
capture the cub without pertinent you've
got the last cub it's so good to see
them alive they're just immobilizing and
now I can't believe you've seen it
through the storm and on this place
growling cover the cub is given a
calming sedative
it can take up to ten minutes and with
others many people around it it's more
stress it's harder for the drug taking
down this fight I just can't quite
believe we've got him you know every one
of these Cubs his own horn is only 400
in wild we really thought he'd died this
you know how he's lasted about ten days
on his own without mother without his
brother and his sister and now hopefully
can join them had the rehab center and
one day come back into the wild
this script is well finest get this guy
he's got a second chance which is out in
doing a second
[Music]
[Applause]
the next morning and the Cubs are doing
well
there are healthy 1.2 kilograms each
[Music]
and as the day's roll by the Cubs
continue to thrive under Giles is
watchful eye so we try and spend a
little bit of time to them every day
it's really important because ultimately
from day one we've been building our
bond with them so the fact that they
just get used to you know hearing my
voice and the sensation of being touched
and picked up and stuff he's really good
his eyes are still completely closed so
they ain't but yeah it's usually between
six and twelve
yeah stay still for just a second Wow
very my gran that's 200 grams again in a
day he's fantastic
so they're only 12 days old and they
will already double their birth weight
the stronger and bigger you get the
quicker you get the better your chance
of survival in the one just notice that
one new line is open
she's awesome you can see me now sort of
we can see your shadow anyway for the
first couple of weeks they're not gonna
be able to focus properly it's still
going to take like a human baby like it
takes a few weeks to for the eyes to
adjust two weeks later the Cubs are
growing stronger and it's time for Giles
to give them names so if you look at the
two them together this little chap has
more of a continuous stripe going along
this way as this one's a bit more broken
like a spot so this is we're calling
this one spot for the time being and
this one strike and he tends to have a
little bit more of a feisty character
than his brother he's gonna be a change
I can see already see what I mean about
being straw be aren't you yeah that's
good you got spirit so this is one we
call in spot this neural chat was the
first one born and he was the one that
for the first couple of areas we were a
little worried about he had a bit of a
tougher time ninya you doing we're
always nearly the same way disease
brother near despite their good health
life for young Tigers is precarious
globally over a third of captive born
Sumatran Cubs won't make it to adulthood
so Giles has made a difficult decision
to safeguard the Cubs future
you're gonna pass with flying colors
buddy yeah he's going to hand raise them
himself at home so he can give them
24-hour care and Mel the vet has come to
check if they're healthy enough to leave
really good steady beat no mames they're
not too young so we've already got so
much
the Cubs will be vulnerable to illness
until they're around six weeks old so
Giles has got to keep a close eye on
them round the clock there is an awful
lot of pressure you know this first and
foremost you know there's pressure
because these guys are so important to
not only us here at the zoo but also to
the breeding program potentially a lot
of eyes around the world that are you
know watching what we're doing and
making sure we do a good job
[Music]
the Cubs are now using anything and
anyone to try out their new teeth so
Giles has a plan we're gonna see if they
want to use those carnassial teeth that
they've just learned carnassial teeth
are specialist molars that allow
carnivores to slice meat efficiently the
fact that they've got those big chewing
teeth at the back the ones that slice
the meat there's a good indication to me
that they're probably at the point where
they can start to chew their own food so
if these guys were in the wild
mum would definitely be taking them to
where she's made a kill and probably
giving it a go themselves it's a really
really big step because if they take
well to this this morning then you know
people move on to understand this new
phase often triggers the development of
another specific Tiger behavior they
might get a little bit possessive if
they really get into it if they really
like it you might see a little bit of
swiping and snarling and being more food
focused in his brother boys jars once
first one spot to give it a go you're
just what I wanted mm-hmm what's this
what is it are you ready yeah yeah no
she's my head no hey hiccup possessive
straight away but he's using his teeth
he's got the idea to the side yeah
if I just let it go he'd keep swallowing
it until the fact that I pull it to the
side makes him use his kinesio teeth
which are the ones that are designed for
chewing off chunks of flesh just I'd
blame alone for a second turned into a
tiger no good boy John oh and it's not
long till stripe has his turn
this is stripe and stripe normally isn't
as driven for his food is what spot is
anyway but he's doing a good job it was
the other way around with spot even the
piece of meat he wouldn't tolerate
stripe jumping all over him like this
he'd be possessive two spots more driven
for the fee stripes giving it a go just
easy being possessive is completely
natural if they've made a kill in the
wild then they're gonna do all they can
to keep it they've spent a lot of energy
making that kill and if they don't eat
then they don't survive so it's worth
invest in the energy and being put right
on the inside thigh it's worth the
energy invested in trying to protect it
spot is the more affectionate one stripe
is the naughty one but when it comes to
food you can see this little guys
definitely much more driven therefore
make him a little bit more possessive
with the Cubs getting stronger and
feisty their days being able to live
with Charles in his family are numbered
[Music]
you